feat(analyzer): add recognizer-level threshold config (#2116)
microsoft/presidio: docs/analyzer/analyzer_engine_provider.md

      - en
    supported_entity: IT_FISCAL_CODE
    type: predefined
    score_thresholds:
      default: 0.4
      CREDIT_CARD: 0.7

  - name: ItFiscalCodeRecognizer
    type: predefined
```

The configuration file contains the following parameters:

- `supported_languages`: A list of supported languages that the analyzer will support.
- `default_score_threshold`: A score that determines the minimal threshold for detection.
- `nlp_configuration`: Configuration given to the NLP engine which will detect the PIIs and extract features for the downstream logic.
- `recognizer_registry`: All the recognizers that will be used by the analyzer. Each recognizer entry can define `score_thresholds`, using `default` as its fallback and entity names for overrides.

> Supplying `analyze(score_threshold=...)` bypasses recognizer-level thresholds for that request and applies the supplied threshold to every result. When omitted, precedence is an entity-specific recognizer threshold, the recognizer's `default`, then `default_score_threshold`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note "Defining confidence thresholds"
    Presidio supports multiple types of score thresholds: default ones (for the analyzer and each recognizer), per-request thresholds, and per-entity thresholds. Supplying `analyzer.analyze(score_threshold=...)` bypasses recognizer-level thresholds for that request and applies the supplied threshold to every result. The order of importance is: `analyzer.analyze(score_threshold=...)` > an entity specific threshold > a recognizer default threshold (`default`) > the Presidio Analyzer `default_score_threshold`.
```

The configuration file contains the following parameters:

- `supported_languages`: A list of supported languages that the analyzer will support.
- `default_score_threshold`: A score that determines the minimal threshold for detection.
- `recognizer_score_thresholds`: Optional per-recognizer thresholds keyed by the recognizer name from `RecognizerResult.RECOGNIZER_NAME_KEY`. Use `default` for a recognizer-wide fallback, then add entity names for overrides.
- `nlp_configuration`: Configuration given to the NLP engine which will detect the PIIs and extract features for the downstream logic.
- `recognizer_registry`: All the recognizers that will be used by the analyzer.

Example:

```yaml

> recognizer_score_thresholds:

Reviewer: Could you explain the motivation in creating a new section instead of defining thresholds at the recognizer level? 

Thanks! Apologies for the delay

Author: Sure. I put them at the analyzer level because `AnalyzerEngine` applies the cutoff after recognizer execution and context enhancement. Recognizers produce candidates; the analyzer owns final result filtering. The analyzer config already owns `default_score_threshold`, so the recognizer-specific map extends the same policy and keeps precedence in one place.

This also works across inline registries, separately loaded registry files, and programmatically created registries. Nesting the value in each recognizer entry would make `RecognizerRegistryProvider` carry analyzer policy back out of the registry-loading path. The map instead keys off `RecognizerResult.RECOGNIZER_NAME_KEY`, with entity overrides beneath it.

If you prefer colocation under `recognizer_registry.recognizers` for configuration discoverability, I can change the shape. I chose the separate section to match runtime ownership and the existing threshold config.

Reviewer: Yes, that's what I thought too. Before implementing, how would it look like if we did it at the recognizer level? Will the analyzer read this configuration from the recognizer registry?

Author: Yes. I’d keep filtering in `AnalyzerEngine`, but move the configuration into each recognizer entry:

```yaml
recognizer_registry:
  recognizers:
    - name: CreditCardRecognizer
      type: predefined
      score_thresholds:
        default: 0.4
        CREDIT_CARD: 0.7
```

`RecognizerRegistryProvider` would validate this block and attach the normalized thresholds to each instantiated recognizer. After context enhancement, `AnalyzerEngine` would use `recognizer_identifier` to find the producing recognizer and apply its entity override or default.

The precedence would remain: explicit `analyze(score_threshold=...)`, entity override, recognizer default, then `default_score_threshold`.

This would work with inline and separately loaded registry files. Programmatically created recognizers could expose the same threshold property. I think this is the cleaner shape because the configuration travels with the recognizer while the analyzer retains responsibility for final filtering. I’ll rework the PR around this design.

Reviewer: I think so too. Let's go with this approach. Thanks!

Author: I reworked this around the recognizer-level shape we discussed:

```yaml
recognizer_registry:
  recognizers:
    - name: CreditCardRecognizer
      type: predefined
      score_thresholds:
        default: 0.4
        CREDIT_CARD: 0.7
```

The registry provider pipeline now validates `score_thresholds` and attaches the normalized mapping while each config entry is still paired with the recognizer instances it creates. That also covers multi-language entries without matching instances back by name. Direct registry dict and YAML additions use the same strict normalizer.

`AnalyzerEngine` still performs final filtering after context enhancement. It uses `recognizer_identifier` to resolve the exact recognizer selected for that request, including ad hoc recognizers and otherwise indistinguishable same-name instances.

The precedence is: explicit `analyze(score_threshold=...)`, entity override, recognizer default, then `default_score_threshold`.

I removed the analyzer-level `recognizer_score_thresholds` map. The same recognizer property works for programmatically created recognizers, while inline and separately loaded registry files preserve raw values until strict validation, so booleans and numeric strings aren't coerced into valid thresholds. I also updated the registry docs and default configuration examples.
